okay so let's just let's just touch on
this real quick so you're wearing the
the Central Park five or The Exonerated
five I feel like exactly the dude takes
out a full-page and in the post and damn
near one of these young brothers
murdered well yeah he called for the
death penalty yeah for these guys right
and we went into this whole story
they really had nothing to do with it
and ultimately it was proven that they
had nothing to do with it they were all
just good kids just before trial in an
effort to locate and interview
additional witnesses detectives asked
Cory Jackson a 15 year old friend of
Carrie wise to come into the precinct to
be interviewed Jackson came into the
25th precinct with his 27 year old
sister melody during this interview
melody Jackson made an unsolicited
statement concerning a conversation she
had with Carrie some time after the
pre-trial hearing she explained that she
was at her sister's house when the phone
rang she answered the phone and it was
wise calling from Rikers Island she said
hello and then said to him that she
couldn't believe that they did that wise
repeatedly stated that he didn't rape
anyone finally saying that he quote only
held her legs down while Kevin had sex
with her Jackson's seemingly thought her
information would be helpful to wise she
was subpoenaed by the district
attorney's office to testify at trial
and repeated what she had said melody
Jackson's interview in 2002 reconfirmed
her testimony I just comment we
currently have many allegations of rape
gathered under the hashtag me to
movement very few of the allegations of
rape have even as much evidence as we've
just presented here with this one phone
call that would be enough evidence to
convict someone not just in the court of
public opinion but in a court of law
out of the approximately 40 teenagers
who entered Central Park that night
37 were interviewed ten more arrested
and ultimately convicted of charges
resulting from their activities five of
these ten the defendants were charged of
the assault and rape of the female Joe
the assault of John Lachlan the assault
on David Lewis and a riot charge all but
Carrie wise were convicted of assault
riot robbery and rape Carrie wise was
convicted of assault riot and sexual
abuse perhaps the most politically
significant criminal trial in the year
2019 concerns a crime that was committed
decades ago in 1989 the case of the
Central Park five is being reopened and
re-examined not in any court of law but
by the public here on the Internet the
members of the mainstream press offer
commentary but that commentary seems to
be very rarely informed by the one
source that this entire video is based
on the one and only source you need to
consult if you want to know the true
history of what happened not only when
the crime was committed but in the
investigation that followed after and
the very strange legal battles that
ensued after that this one source the
Armstrong report at the end of this
video I hope you will either be inspired
to go and read it for yourself
or at least you will be inspired to
demand of the people and provide you
with information whether on the radio on
the internet or a newsprint
why is it that they never paid due
attention to the facts established by
the Armstrong report in the first major
event the assault and Antonio Diaz a
total of 23 people were named as
participants or as being present all
five defendants were implicated by
accomplices and to admitted
participation
the second major event was harassment of
a couple on a tandem bike a total of 13
people were named participants or as
being present four of the defendants
were implicated by a comma
as an admitted participation I have to
comment at this point if you want to
imagine that the police carefully
constructed the narrative of what
happened and fed this information to the
defendants that they coerced the
defendants to give the information that
would make this story work the timeline
of the police interviewing so many
different people approximately 30
different people and getting 30
different stories from different
perspectives about what happened about a
series of disorganized crimes all
transpiring in the same night that's a
conspiracy theory that is very very
difficult to make mash with this mess of
facts and this is a situation where was
a group of undisciplined teenagers
pretty much each of whom was snitching
on the others while trying to minimize
their own guilt or responsibility some
being more honest than others and over
the course of years the authorities had
to figure out who was being more honest
it was being less so partly through the
comparison of those stories but this is
not a situation where the police could
easily contrive one story to then feed
to a group of 30 different people the
third major event was crossing the 96th
Street transverse Road to the reservoir
a total of 17 people were identified as
having gone south toward the reservoir
all five defendants were implicated by
accomplices and admitted going the
fourth major event was the assault on
jogger David Lewis a total of eleven
people were identified as participants
or as being present four of the
defendants were implicated by
accomplices and wanted admitted
participation the fifth major event was
the assault on Java John Oakland who is
very badly beaten a total of 19 people
were identified as participants or as
being present all five defendants were
implicated by accomplices and three
admitted participation whatever
conclusions may be reached regarding
Matias Reyes claims that he raped the
female jogger alone
emphasis on the word alone there seems
to be no reason to believe that the
defendants were innocent of the other
crimes for which they were convicted
crimes committed on the same day again
if you and the audience want to believe
that some of the confessions were false
to some extent even that has to be seen
in this context of having so many
serious charges rolled up in a ball in
terms of human psychology and commonly
in legal practice when people to confess
to crimes that didn't commit one context
that happens in is when they've
committed many other crimes that are
already facing many years in prison and
those charges are all rolled up in a
ball so to speak however I think if
anyone reads the full report I think
it's very very difficult to convince
yourself that there's any possibility
that any of the Central Park five are
innocent in any meaningful sense of the
term innocent before we get into the
details there are two important
clarifications to sit down
number one wrongly convicted does not
mean innocent especially not when police
misconduct is involved the more the
police are guilty of misconduct the more
irrelevant it is to the guilt or
innocence of the people on trial that
the case is thrown out of court or that
the conclusions of the trial were later
invalidated so if you believe the police
did something wrong in for example
interrogating the witnesses
interrogating the suspects that in
itself actually does not exonerate the
suspects in any way it's very easy for
people to lose sight of that fact if the
interrogations were carried out
improperly that still doesn't mean the
people being accused were innocent
number two one politically motivated
myth may be replaced by another equally
misleading politically motivated
mythology even if you believe that
someone like Donald Trump is
untrustworthy that does not make Whoopi
Goldberg trustworthy the story that
Whoopi Goldberg is telling which is
simply DNA evidence doesn't lie
therefore these five men are completely
innocent therefore Donald Trump is wrong
and evil and bad and terrible do you
think that Whoopi Goldberg has done the
little bit of reading the 40 pages of
reading that I did in preparing this
video do you think that Whoopi Goldberg
has read the Armstrong report I don't I
also don't believe that Donald Trump has
read the Armstrong report Donald Trump
may be wrong about many many things if
Donald Trump is right about this I guess
it's just his dumb luck or he asked the
opinion of some lawyer in New York City
who knows more than he does it's
terrifying to me that the small number
of people I trust in the mainstream
media people whose opinions I care about
like DJ Vlad here have completely jumped
on the bandwagon of trying to present
the Central Park five as heroes without
doing the little bit of fact-checking
that I've done in preparing this YouTube
video to present to you now some of the
defendants have repeated their
admissions of guilt
Santana testified at a parole hearing in
1994 he admitted that he and his friends
planned to go to the park that night to
rob and assault people he stated that
about seven or eight friends devised the
plan they were prepared to attack
whoever they encountered that night in
the park Santana reiterated that they
had let one a couple go because the man
was with his girlfriend Santana also
admitted to beating a man he denied only
the rape when McCray went before the
parole board in November 1994 he
admitted all of his crimes except for
the rape of the female jogger two of the
defendants Raymond Santana and Kevin
Richardson during interviews conducted
by detectives in 2002
admitted their participation the
assaults that did not involve the jogger
when you say when you imply they must
have done something anyway you're saying
I don't care that they didn't do it so
if you don't care they didn't do it why
why if it was his kids if it was Ivanka
and Don junior do you think he would say
I don't care that they didn't do it I
don't get it both sides there's two
sides to this there's two sides no of
course I'm he views certain people as
above the law and it doesn't matter what
they do and they can get away with
anything other people they're under the
law it doesn't matter if they did it or
didn't do it we're gonna punish them
based on my stereotypes of them there is
a two-tiered justice system we do have a
problem with targeting innocent people
of color and putting them behind bars
when they have not committed a crime and
what what that does is not only ruin
their lives but it also allows the real
culprit to go out there and commit more
crimes more rape more murder and that is
certainly what happened in this case
this is absolutely what happened in the
station we talked about it earlier this
week that is exactly what happened in
this case there is a look there's a
young woman and two young men who don't
have their mother anymore because the
real Central Park attacker went on to
kill their mother because he was a
serial rapist whose DNA was at the crime
scene and in not continuing to look for
who actually did it and you know from
all accounts except for fair stains the
all of the evidence led to one attacker
not five Matias Reyes is the man who
many years after the crime was committed
confessed to his involvement and DNA
evidence confirmed that he was one of
the people who raped this woman the
jogger in the park
however the DNA evidence does not
confirm that nobody else raped her the
DNA evidence does not indicate that
nobody else was guilty of the crimes
that they inside confessed to and that
again a complex network of about 30
witnesses all identified and implicated
different people and
all the different stages of this
sequence of crimes sequence of assaults
involving one rape all transpiring on
the same night all with multiple
witnesses all with multiple participants
I just note because it's not the focus
of this video the testimony of Matias
Reyes which is all covered in the same
report it's deeply incoherent in some
places it's just incorrect in other
places it's either implausible or
actually impossible Matias Reyes --is
testimony is so unreliable it's so bad
that if we didn't have the DNA evidence
proving that he was one of the rapists
he wouldn't hold up in court
even his confession wouldn't hold up in
court so there's a great deal that
self-evidently wrong with the testimony
provided by Matias Reyes and several
experts testify that he is insane a
psychopath he's also a murderer and
rapist there were many many reasons to
regard what he says as highly dubious
but the DNA proves that he was
ultimately one of the men at the scene
of the crime in the afternoon of April
20th 1989 prior to being arrested Kerri
wise made admissions to two
acquaintances marl Williams and Shabazz
head they approached wise at one hundred
and tenth Street and Fifth Avenue and
wise told them to get away from him
because the police were after Williams
and had walked away a short time later
they encountered him again and asked why
the police were after him wise replied
you heard about that woman that was beat
up and raped in the park last night that
was us when Kevin Richardson was
interrogated by Detective Gonzalez he
was asked to explain the scratches on
his face at first Richardson said it was
an injury received when he fell
following more questioning which
stated that he got the scratches from
the arresting officer when told of the
possibility that the officer would be
asked to corroborate the story
Richardson admitted that he received the
scratches from the female jogger while
trying to stop the others from attacking
her in a later statement to a detective
Kevin Richardson explained that he lied
about he received the scratch on his
face Richardson said he received it when
he tried to take the female jogger off
of the road the evidence presented in
court also included among other things a
blood stain on Raymond Santana sneaker
individual bloodstains on Yusef salams
jacket and Stephen Lopez's underwear and
semen stains on the unaware of
Antron McCray and Kevin Richardson and
the sweatshirt of Raymond Santana the
ryan affirmation makes no reference to
the blood or semen evidence this
evidence was by no means dispositive at
trial the word dispositive here means he
doesn't make it an open-and-shut case it
doesn't prove the case at trial this
evidence was by no means dispositive at
trial but the fact that it exists is
important for instance it contradicts
various reports that no blood was found
on any of the defendants in some the new
test results established that Matias
Reyes is the previously unknown source
of the semen found on the female jogger
and her clothing they do not prove that
the other defendants known as the
Central Park five could not have
participated in the attack coming to
conclusion we adopt the view that the
most likely scenario for the events of
April 19th 1989 was that the defendants
came upon the jogger
and subjected her to the same kind of
attack albeit with sexual overtones that
they inflicted upon other victims in the
park that night
perhaps attracted at the scene with the
joggers scream Reyes either joined in
the attack as it was ending or waited
until the defendants had moved on to
their next victims before descending
upon her himself raping her and
inflicting upon her the brutal injuries
that almost caused her death
concerning the crimes other than the
rape of the female jogger two of the
defendants reaffirmed their guilt for
these crimes at parole hearings and
these together with a third did so in
2002 after Reyes came forward to make
his confession moreover for other
individuals who had pleaded guilty to
the assaults he implicated the
defendants in these crimes in their
interrogations or recorded statements so
I asked you first and foremost the
Armstrong report who do you think read
it not Donald Trump not Ava Duvernay not
Whoopi Goldberg and then if I ask who
wrote it well this is lawyer Michael F
Armstrong and this is former New York
police officer
Jules Martin am i for my part a little
bit biased against Ava Duvernay yes I am
but not just because she happens to be
wrong about many of the facts and
ethical claims that she's made in her
latest hit movie concerning the Central
Park five I'm actually biased against
her just because she lacks precisely the
sort of background that people like
Michael Armstrong and Jules Martin have
in putting together their meticulously
researched report ultimately I am biased
against Ava Duvernay precisely because
she is a BB a major in English
literature in African American Studies
from UCLA I genuinely do not think she
has the education or experience to deal
with the type of complex dense and
conflicting information that you need to
analyze and put together in responsible
way to understand what happened on the
night in 1989 when in Central Park
numerous people were assaulted beaten
and one woman was brutally raped finally
the Armstrong award why did people
ignore it I think that the value of the
ward is so obvious it's the evidence
presented by it is so overwhelming it's
so conclusive that it's being ignored
today
simply because it had the misfortune to
be published way back in January of 2003
it simply came out at a time when the
public was not paying attention and
today when they are paying attention the
message offered by the report is one
that everyone seems to want to sweep
under the rug
if you wanted out the full story again
this video has just one source you can
google around you can read it for
yourself
[Music]